Ok, that might work for the placeholder.  Thank you for that suggestion I will take a look.
I am still having issues with the detail grid's dropdowns - in getting them to allow type ahead.  And, I'm guessing I will still have these issues with the Count field as well.  So, I will explain the different datasources - though the code I sent you is not the actual application code.  Unfortunately, I haven't been able to get the real code to work outside of my application since it is actually embedded in a control in an iframe in a client server application.  (this makes everything 10 times harder I am sure)
I  build little apps or take code examples from you guys and modify them to try to get them to work somewhat like my actual app does.
The summaryLine array is actually a dataset that is built on the server and passed in a JSONstring to javascript code.  Then I parse that into a datastore of type array.  I do that for all of my datasets actually.
The main SummaryLine dataset houses the data for the Attribute detail grid (in the master detail) as well as data for a question/answer datagrid.  Both of these would be separate arrays within the main multi dimensional array that provides the summaryline data.
Those are constantly updated by me sending back what the user has selected at each step and then basically re-creating the dataset based on business logic on the server.
The Count dropdown is filled by the lines array.
The selection field's dropdown in the attribute detail grid is filled from the attributes array.
Again, both of those arrays are updated every time a value is selected by the user - back on the server and then resent along with the summaryline dataset so that things remain in sync.
This control is a configurator.  So, there are certain things that are set up in the system that when the user selects something in the base app, launches this control with certain parameters.  They then use a portion of the configurator to search for 1 item basically... that is the goal of the search piece.  To get it to where they have one item left.  So when they make Selections in the Attribute detail grid, they are narrowing down the list of items showing in the Count dropdown.
When they have it narrowed down to one item, if that item is "configurable" then the summaryline dataset comes back to the javascript control with the Questions array populated and I now have 2 detail grids.  1 for the search attributes they used and the second for a list of questions that the user needs to answer to configure the item.  As they answer these questions, the answers go back to the server and again hit the business logic and the summaryline and the responses for the questions that the user has left to answer are filtered further.  Eventually the finished item is configured and it is returned to the base app as a sales line on an order.
There are other things happening in the control as well, but everything has to be able to be navigated to using a keyboard or a mouse.  some companies will only use a keyboard for everything.  And, things have to be as automated as possible.  So, when they tab down to a detail grid, only the editable dropdowns can be tab stops and they have to open automatically and focus has to be inside the dropdown so they can just use their arrow key and go down through the lists.  But, at the same time they somehow have to have the ability to start typing the "search" fields value for that dropdown grid and have that work.
Then, they select a line and if a single selection the dropdown closes and the next dropdown is focused and opened.  If they don't select anything they use the right and left arrow keys to move to the previous or next dropdown in the detail section.  I believe I have a handle on getting the keyboard navigation and selection working.  Unfortunately though this seems to stop working when I introduce the type ahead search in those dropdowns.
I hope all that helps to make this make more sense :-)  If you think it would help get these issues wrapped up I could try to copy out all of my javascript again into a codepen and again hook up some "fake data" arrays for all of the dropdowns, but that still won't simulate the back and forth with the server and business logic side of things very well I am afraid.
Thanks again! 
