
Hi,
I am building an application to publish a large number of a variety of reports. We have just migrated to a new banking system and we have around 250 reports that are being created as stored procedures from a data warehouse. The application should be able to deliver the record sets from the called sp to any user in a grid view, enabling them to manipulate the data and eventually download the result as Excel file.
To achieve this I used a ASPX grid view with the property 'Auto generate columns' not defining any columns which is hidden in an ASPX Popup control. The user may or may not have to provide parameters to execute the stored procedure called referenced in the SQL data source for the grid view control. the stored procedure will return different report outputs depending on the parameter 'SPROC' which is linked to the report title in the list box. So far the application works as expected - a user can select a report and the grid view provides the requested data, however there are two issues with the nature of the SQL data source in this application:
* after entering the parameters on the last post-back the user will have to wait some time for the parameters to upload and the data set to download. I can see the activity on Chrome at the bottom left (Uploading / Waiting) after the page has reloaded I can click 'Open report' to reveal the popup and data will appear in the grid view, if I don't wait until this process is finished the popup will already open but the grid view will be empty. How can I time the popup to wait for the process to finish? Can I insert a progress bar to indicate that a data load process is running and the user has to wait? Ideally I would like to have a progress bar showing right after click 'Open report'. I understand that the event  <ClientSideEvents Click="function (s,e) {GridPopup.Show();}" /> happens on the client side - how can I time the open event based on the successful completion of the load of the record set into the SQL data source?
Thanks,
Kai 
