I need to rewrite an old MS Access/SQL Server application that I created for a client over 15 years ago into something browser based for them this year. I've recently created a couple of simple PHP MVC pages for them using Codeigniter and have also been messing around with Laravel. The Codeigniter version I did works great but it's a lot of work and the presentation isn't all that impressive. Just basic nuts and bolts stuff.
10 years ago I used DevExpress ASP.NET Web Forms in VS 2008 I think to create a website for a high school reunion class. It turned out really great but development was SOOOOOO slow. I remember working on forms that just took forever to change things and save. It was a total nightmare. In fact I created a ticket about it at the time. Lots of people followed it and I don't think it got any real results. Based on a similar experience I've had very recently and also written a ticket about with a vb.net application I'm also working on where a form with TONS of controls is super slow when I rename controls, I'm very worried about doing any heavy duty work in VS any more. This is why I fiddled around with Codeigniter and Laravel last week. It's all very fast to work with. No delays when naming/renaming/saving, etc. Just works right away lickity split. It's not annoying.
So having done MVC work with Codeigniter and Laravel and having a DevExpress license that includes ASP.NET MVC I decided to check into the MVC side of DevExpress. My fear though is that even though it's MVC  it's still ASP.NET and Visual Studio and I'm still going to sit there swearing at my computer for delaying my work. I'm writing this to find out what others have experienced in this area. I can't spend the next year rewriting something big with frustration after frustration due to IDE speed issues. 
Or would I be happier with DevExtreme?
To be clear, the existing project is going to be run on a local network. That might change once they start using it. I don't know. For now, they say they don't want to open up access to it outside their offices. MS SQL will remain the database for this. That's not changing. It will have loads of forms and reports. The MS Access project is quite extensive.
Any input on this would be greatly appreciated. :-)
Thanks,
Keith :-)
