Hi,
I  have been looking into XtraReports for quite some time to replace our Crystal Report based reporting platforms. However, till recent times, XtraReport was lacking some critical features which prevented us from doing so. I am now again evaluating XtraReport after coming to know of the latest developments. While doing so I am finding some issues which are "critical" and some which are "good to have". As a software organization developing products, I know that collating multiple issues in a single ticket would be difficult for support tracking but you can split the questions into different tickets if you wish.
We used Crystal Report primarily for Invoice designing for our end users. Every customer of ours request a customized format suited to their business needs. The number of layout customization requests handle by our services team is at least 50-100 per month. 
In our software, the invoice data is generated as a .net dataset at runtime by our reporting service routine (sometimes from tables, views or stored procedures/functions) with all transactions and related masters populated in the same dataset. Our current RPTs do not connect directly to the database but is designed with an XML (dataset based) and is supplied a live dataset (of the same structure) at runtime. All reports work with same dataset structure, only at runtime the live dataset is supplied in the ReportDocument.DataSource property (Crystal Report).
1. 
 - As our conventions, we export ADO.NET DataSets  with sample data and schema (DataSet.WriteXML with Schema option) to XML files. This enables us to design the reports in Crystal Report offline but at the same time view the data in preview mode, right from the designer. Similarly, I have tried using the same XML here as an XML data source and loaded the same into the XtraReport. The tables were populated but the DataRelations were not populated. But in Crystal the relations are also populated. It will be very difficult for us to recreate the data relations every time an XML is loaded, since we keep customizing quite a few Invoice layouts every month. Am I missing something which is preventing the DataRelation from being loaded? I did not try the load only the schema (XSD) as mentioned in 
 since I believe that would prevent me from seeing the loaded sample data in offline design mode in the previewer.
2. 
- When I am creating a Calculated Field, and subsequently trying to map the field to a label, through 
, I cannot find the field from 'Search'. For example I have created a calculated field named [v_Report_POSBill].[f_heading] which is not showing up when I am searching 'f_heading'. Tried different ways of searching, but it does not show up.
3. 
- It is very inconvenient for developers to search for calculated fields from a single tree node. while trying to drag them into the design . The 'Field List', irrespective of wherever it shows up, e.g. as a tabbed window 
or from 
 can't we have a separate tree where all the calculated fields are shown under a single hierarchy. I am using 27 datatables and it is very difficult to track under which tables I have the Calculated Fields. Please give a separate hierarchy where all such fields will be displayed under one node in addition to their positions in actual source table hierarchy. It will be very easy to track how many Calculated Fields I have created and drag and drop / binding will be very easy. Refer arrangement of formula fields of Crystal Report for this.
4. 
 - It is very convenient for the developer to view the underlying data while designing the report. Crystal Report has a View Data option where data for each field can be displayed. Every field should have a view data option and if not the 'Calculated Fields' but at least the Data Source tables, and direct table.column bound fields should have the option for 'View Data'. Yes, you can ask for a 'Limit' for design time fetching of data (e.g. 10 records, or ask from user). This helps immensely for offline designers (using XML files) since often you might need to look at the underlying data shape before you apply any formatting or create a formula (Calculated Field).
Hope you will address the critical issues with urgency.
Thanks in advance.
Software Architect
 
